thank you in the name of God the
compassionate and merciful Mr President
at the outset I would like to extend my
sincere gratitude to the Russian
Federation for convening this emergency
meeting I also extend my gratitude to
China and
Algeria for requesting this meeting as
well as those member that supported
convening of this
meeting we also thank Miss T Colo for
her briefing Mr President distinguished
member of the
Council we request this urgent meeting
and attend the council today to address
a matter of the grave importance and
urgency one that treat International
Peace and security and challenges the
very principle upon which this esteemed
body was
founded as we address in our letter
today to your Mr
President the cover the assassination of
Mr is Han the political chief of the
Palestinian Islamic resistance movement
Hamas and the great leader of the
Palestinian people legitimate a struggle
for
self-determination as the result of an
aggressive act of terrorism by Zionist
occupying regime of
Israel Mr Han who was in tan upon an
official invitation of the government of
the Islamic Republic of Iran to attend
the inauguration ceremony of the new
president of the Islamic Republic of
Iran with the presence of leaders of
many foreign countries was targeted
alongside His companion in his residence
in tan today at around 2 a.m. local
time this act of Terror is just another
mation manifestation of Israelis deading
long patterns of terrorism and sabotage
targeting Palestinian and other
supporters and sympathizers of the
Palestinian CS across the region and
Beyond in addition to its terrorist
objective Israel was also pursuing
political goal with this act aiming to
disrupt the first day of the new
government of the Islamic Republic of
Iran which has prioritized a
strengthening peace and stability in the
region and enhancing cooperation and
constructive engage M with International
Community the Islamic Republic of Iran
condemn in the strongest possible terms
this horrible terrorist act as a most
serious violation of international law
and the charter of the United Nation as
well as a grave breach of Iran
sovereignty and National
Security this aggressive act of
terrorism as provocative as it is
constitute a serious breach of peace and
security and requires immediate and
effective action by the UN Security
Council in the discharge of its
responsibility under the
charter this crime is not
isolated but part of a broader pattern
of aggressive actions and policies by
Israeli regime against other nations in
the region just our before this heinous
crime this regime carried out coverly
IST attack in the sou suburbs of Beirut
Lebanon targeting civilians and civilian
infr
structures the warmongering leaders of
this rough regime have shown complete
disregard for the basic norms and
principles of international law their
crimes reveal a lack of commitment to
peace and stability in the region and
suggest an intention to escalate
conflict and expand the war through the
entire region the responsibility of the
United States as a strategic Ally and
Main supporters of the Israeli regime in
the region cannot be overlooked in this
horrific crime this act could not be
occurred without the authorization and
intelligent support of the
US the continuation of Israel's
aggression treaten peace and stability
in the region
the International Community particularly
the United Nations security Council
cannot remain indifferent to such
heinous crimes and must take decisive
action to address this violation and
hold the perpetrators
accountable Mr President persistent and
systematic attack on Palestinian
civilians in Gaza characterized by dis
appropriation use of the force and
discriminate targeting have resulted in
tragic loss of life while the spread
destruction and depending humanitarian
and depending deepening humanitarian
crisis this action which frequently
Target civilian infrastructure
residential area and medical facilities
not only violate International
humanitarian law but also constitute war
crimes under the Geneva Convention
unfortunately the inaction and inability
of the security Council have emboldened
this occurrence regime allowing it to
continue committing war crimes against
the oppressed people of Palestine and
acts of agation against other nation of
the
region the Islamic Republic of Iran has
repeatedly warned of the serious
repercussions that the malicious
activities of Israeli occupying regime
po oppos to Regional and International
Peace and security despite these
provocations Iran has consistently
exercised maximum
restraint following the Israeli regime
cly terrorist and armed attack on our
diplomatic premises on Damascus Syria on
1st April we promptly notified the UN
Security Council and Secretary
General of the Israeli intern National
wrongful act and called on the security
Council to denounce this unjustified
criminal and terrorist act decisively
and to take appropriate measures to
prevent the recurrence of such crimes
and aggressions regrettably the security
Council has failed in this in its duty
to maintain International Peace and
security and a draft press statement
proposed by Russia in condemning the
Israeli atrocious Act was blocked by the
United States United Kingdom and France
yet it is no imperative that the
occupying regime be held fully
accountable for its atrocities this
regime must not be allowed to evade
responsibilities for its violation and
consequences that
follow Mr President distinguished member
of the council for nearly 10 months
certain countries particularly the
United States have shielded
Israel from any responsibilities for the
massacre in Gaza and malicious
activities in the region these countries
have not only denied the inherent right
of Palestinian resistance group to
self-defense against Israeli atrocities
but have also shamelessly Justified the
Israeli Massacre and genocide against
defenseless Palestinian people under the
pretext of self-defense for Israel the
US and its allies have made cynical
attempt to justify and cover up the
atrocities committed by the Israeli
regime against the people of Palestine
through arbitrary and misleading
interpretation of the concept of
selfdefense regretably the United States
has once again and choosen to turn a
blind eye to reality and Overlook the
root causes of the current
situation the Palestinian resistance
group like Hamas and other resistance
group in the region are not
terrorists they are legitimate group
under international law and were
established to fight against occupation
and
aggression Mr President the secretary
the security Council must unequivocally
condemn isra for its horrible terrorist
act as a most serious violation of
international law and the charter of the
United Nation as well as a grave breach
of Iran's sovereignty and National
Security this condemnation should be a
strong and clear and reflect the
international community's rejection of
such violation of sovereignty and
territorial Integrity furthermore the
security Council should take immediate a
step to hold Israel accountable for this
act of agation this
include considering the imposition of
sanction and other measures that are
necessary to prevent further violation
and to signal that the Israeli
malevolent activities will not be
tolerated by the International
Community the council must also demand
that the Israeli immediately cease all
aggressive actions against the pal
Palestinian territories and other
nations in the region this demand should
be accompanied by the call for ending
the occupation of the palestin
territories the territory of Lan and the
Syrian occupied Golan in accordance with
the international law and the principles
of the United Nations and
finally the Islamic Republic of Iran
Reserve its inherent right to
self-defense in accordance with
international law to respond decisively
to this terrorist and criminal act when
it deems necessary and
appropriate the Islamic Republic of Iran
reaffirms its commitment to upholding
international law and the purposes and
principles of the United Nations Charter
we believe that peace and stability in
the region can only be achieved through
respect for these principles I thank you
I thank the Islamic Republic of Iran for
your statement and I now give the floor
to the representative of the state of
pales Observer state of
Palestine Mr President I thank you for
your Swift response to Algeria and
China's requests to convene this
emergency meeting to address the further
grave developments regarding the
Palestine question and the broader
situation in the Middle East we
recognize that this meeting takes place
on the last day of the presidency of the
Russian Federation and renew
appreciation for your skilled leadership
of the council in these critical
times we also thank under Secretary
General De Carlo for her
briefing Mr President it has been nearly
300 days since Israel launched its
genocidal war on the Palestinian people
in the Gaza Strip a war that has Gravely
breached all tenants of international
humanitarian and human rights law a war
that has flagrantly violated the UN
Charter including the Cardinal principle
regarding the sovereignty and
territorial Integrity of States a war
that threatens International Peace and
security yet Israel is being permitted
to wage this war in broad daylight with
no restraints and no
consequences it is doing so willfully
and wanly in spite of this security
council's resolutions in spite of the
icj provisional measures orders in spite
of the global demands for a
ceasefire and still the council is
failing its duty to impose a ceas fire
and bring a halt to this
depravity Every Day brings more horror
loss and suffering for our people as
Israeli occupying forces Massacre
Palestinian civilians assassinate
officials kill humanitarian workers
medical personnel and journalists abduct
civilians and torture and rape them in
Israeli jails bomb and Destroy
Palestinian homes and
infrastructure and attack un premises
including unrest schools Sheltering
millions of forcibly displaced civilians
who are being deliberately starved and
denied access to Medical Care and the
most basic needs for human subsistence
and dignity by an occupier mercilessly
chasing and hunting them down repeatedly
displacing them as they desperately
search for safety in a place where no
one and nowhere is safe it is not only a
catastrophic humanitarian crisis it is
an existential
crisis and today yet another Palestinian
official has been assassinated by
Israel as pronounced by Palestinian
president Mahmud Abbas the Palestinian
leadership condemns in the strongest
terms the
assassination of former Palestinian
prime minister and head of the political
Bureau of Hamas isma Hanya in tahan
today a national day of mour has been
declared in Palestine and we solemnly
acknowledge the expressions of
condolence and the global condemnations
of this act of
Terror moreover we unequivocally condemn
the criminal breach of the territorial
integrity and sovereignty of the Islamic
Republic of Iran as we condemn the
repeated breaches by Israel of the
sovereignty and territorial Integrity of
Lebanon the Syrian Arab Republic and
Yemen and this includes yesterday's
Brazen attack on beay we call call again
with utmost urgency on the security
Council the general assembly and all
law-abiding peace loving Nations to act
forth with to bring a halt to these
horrific criminal Israeli aggressions
against the Palestinian people and on
our
region we demand accountability for this
assassination as we have continually
demanded accountability for the want and
murder and injury of over
130,000 Palestinian children women and
men across these past 300 Days of Horror
and hell in Gaza and call for
accountability for all of Israel's
criminal policies and practices in our
territory across the
decades likewise we reiterate our calls
for accountability for all of Israel's
breaches of the territorial integrity
and sovereignty of states in the region
including the state of
Palestine the UN Charter must be upheld
not solely in words but also in Deeds
the failure to hold Israel accountable
has permitted and enabled these crimes
and further emboldened Israeli
government officials military commanders
and settler extremists to escalate their
reign of terror against defenseless
Palestinian civilians all across the
territory of the State of Palestine in
the Gaza Strip and in the West Bank
including East Jerusalem as well as
across the
region Mr President violence and Terror
are clearly Israel's Main and only
currency not international law not
diplomacy not mediation not respect for
human life there is no red line for
Israel no law it will not breach no Norm
it will not trample no act too depraved
or barbaric for its occupying Army and
settler militias and no child woman or
man off limits even babies considered
legitimate
targets the Israeli Prime Minister and
his Coalition of government extremists
and Military commanders believe there
will never be a cost for their crimes
they believe they can literally get away
with murder get away with genocide
against the Palestinian
people they believe it because it has
been possible until now no resolution no
icj order no ceasefire calls have been
respected no demand for protection of
civilians and humanitarian access has
been heeded and still no consequences
whatsoever for
Israel this has gone on even as the
Palestinian people have tragically live
streamed the genocide for all the world
to see believing that somehow the world
would act to save the over 2 million
human lives endangered in
Gaza every plea for help including in
this Council has been made in the belief
that the world would act in respect of
the rule of law our shared moral
obligations and our Collective
Humanity yet this gruesome aggression
continues surpassing 40,000 Palestinians
killed the majority women and children
over 91,000 injured in attacks by
Israeli occupying forces nearly the
entirety of gaza's population
uprooted and the decimation of the Gaza
Strip and Trauma of the entire
population at the same time in the West
Bank including East Jerusalem Israeli
occupying forces and settler terrorists
continue their violent raids killing at
least
569 Palestinians
including
children and Israel's illegal Colonial
settlement campaign not only continues
as we speak but is intensifying as it
feverishly pursues its vowed
annexationist aims seeking to Forever
obstruct the Palestinian people's right
to self-determination and Independence
and to destroy the two-state
solution Mr President members of the
council until
when AB any form of
accountability any serious mobilization
and sanctions including a halt to Arms
transfers to pressure an end to these
crimes Israel is proving every single
day that it will continue to act as a
rogue State the assassination today and
all the crimes preceding it and that
have followed it in the ensuing hour
hours prove this beyond the shadow of a
doubt Israel openly declares its
intentions to carry on defying the
council and the International Community
as a whole brazenly carrying on with its
scorched Earth killing and destruction
spree in Gaza vowing to further entrench
its Colonial annexationist occupation
and its racist discriminatory hateful
policies against the Palestinian people
and recklessly escalating tensions it is
blatantly attempting to destabilize the
entire ire region and provoke an allout
war in the Middle East with dangerous
repercussions not only for the region
but far beyond the International
Community must confront this
reality and act to stop these crimes and
aggressions there is no right that
Israel can claim to justify these war
crimes and crimes against humanity the
right to peace and security is the right
of all states in the region and in every
region of the world it is not an
exclusive right of
Israel moreover it is a fact that Israel
is an illegal occupant in the state of
Palestine and possesses no rights
whatsoever in our territory and over our
people this was unequivocally determined
by the icj in the seminal advisory
opinion it
rendered just days ago on the 19th of
July this ruling must be respected and
enforced Israel has no sovereignty
rights and no right to self-defense in a
territory in which it is illegally
present in grave breach of every rule of
international law this illegal
occupation in all of its manifestations
must come to an end and the Palestinian
people must be
free Mr President Israel has been the
oppressor Tormentor and murderer of
Palestinians for decades and it is the
long-standing destabilizer of our region
it must be
stopped the obligations of the security
Council and general assembly the
obligations of all States including the
high Contracting parties to the Fourth
Geneva Convention are to act forth with
to bring an end to this unlawful
abhorent situation
the lives of millions of civilians are
at stake in Gaza and the rest of
occupied Palestine and throughout the
region we appeal to the International
Community to act immediately first and
foremost this Security Council as per
its Charter duty to maintain
International Peace and
security it must act to protect the
Palestinian people and to prevent a
regional War against it at this moment
of clear and present
danger the International Community has a
choice to make let it be for peace and
security do not let Israel drag us all
to the abyss I thank you Mr President
and esteemed members of the council for
your attention and on behalf of the
State of Palestine and her people
implore you to
act make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer